docs/technical-guide.md, before:

# 🔧 Technical Guide

Complete technical documentation for developers working with the Life Sciences Knowledge Graph Agent platform.

## 🏗️ System Architecture

### Overview
The platform uses a modular architecture combining Neo4j graph database, LangGraph workflow engine, and Streamlit interface for interactive learning.

```
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│                      Streamlit Web Interface                            │
│  ┌─────────────┐  ┌──────────────┐  ┌─────────────┐  ┌─────────────┐  │
│  │ Concepts    │  │ Try Agent    │  │ Queries     │  │ Exercises   │  │
│  └─────────────┘  └──────────────┘  └─────────────┘  └─────────────┘  │
└─────────────────────────────┬───────────────────────────────────────────┘
                              │
┌─────────────────────────────▼───────────────────────────────────────────┐
│                         Agent Layer                                     │
│ ┌─────────────────┐ ┌─────────────────┐ ┌─────────────────────────────┐ │
│ │ Simple Agent    │ │Learning Agent   │ │ LangGraph Agent            │ │
│ │ (Template)      │ │ (Learning)      │ │ (Advanced)                 │ │
│ └─────────────────┘ └─────────────────┘ └─────────────────────────────┘ │
└─────────────────────────────┬───────────────────────────────────────────┘
                              │
┌─────────────────────────────▼───────────────────────────────────────────┐
│                    Graph Interface Layer                                │
│                   ┌─────────────────────┐                              │
│                   │   GraphInterface    │                              │
│                   │  - Execute Queries  │                              │
│                   │  - Validate Cypher  │                              │
│                   │  - Schema Info      │                              │
│                   └─────────────────────┘                              │
└─────────────────────────────┬───────────────────────────────────────────┘
                              │
┌─────────────────────────────▼───────────────────────────────────────────┐
│                        Neo4j Database                                   │
│   ┌─────────┐  ┌─────────┐  ┌─────────┐  ┌─────────┐                  │
│   │  Gene   │  │Protein  │  │Disease  │  │  Drug   │                  │
│   └─────────┘  └─────────┘  └─────────┘  └─────────┘                  │
│                    Connected by Relationships                           │
└─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
```

### Core Components

#### 1. Web Interface (`src/web/app.py`)
- **Streamlit application** with 4 learning tabs
- **Interactive visualizations** using Plotly and NetworkX
- **Real-time query execution** and results display
- **Learning feedback** and step-by-step explanations

#### 2. Agent Types (`src/agents/`)

**AdvancedAIAgent** - Full LangGraph implementation:
```python
class AdvancedAIAgent:
    def __init__(self, graph_interface, anthropic_key):
        self.graph = graph_interface
        self.client = Anthropic(api_key=anthropic_key)
        self.workflow = self._build_workflow()
    
    def _build_workflow(self):
        # LangGraph state machine with 5 nodes:
        # classify → extract → generate → execute → format
        workflow = StateGraph(AgentState)
        workflow.add_node("classify", self.classify_question)
        workflow.add_node("extract", self.extract_entities)
        workflow.add_node("generate", self.generate_cypher_query)
        workflow.add_node("execute", self.execute_query)
        workflow.add_node("format", self.format_response)
        return workflow.compile()
```

**WorkflowAgent** - Simplified LangGraph for learning:
```python
class WorkflowAgent:
    # Learning version with print statements
    # Shows state transitions clearly
    # Designed for learning LangGraph concepts
```

**TemplateQueryAgent** - Template-based for beginners:
```python
class TemplateQueryAgent:
    # Pre-built query templates
    # Good for understanding Cypher patterns
    # No AI generation, just parameterized queries
```

#### 3. Graph Interface (`src/agents/graph_interface.py`)
```python
class GraphInterface:
    def execute_query(self, query: str, parameters: dict = None):
        # Executes Cypher queries safely
        # Handles connection management
        # Validates query syntax
    
    def get_schema_info(self):
        # Returns node labels and relationship types
        # Used for query generation and validation
```

## 🧬 Data Model

### Node Types
```cypher
// Genes with properties
(:Gene {gene_name: "GENE_ALPHA", gene_id: "GA001", chromosome: "1"})

// Proteins with molecular details
(:Protein {protein_name: "PROT_ALPHA", protein_id: "PA001", molecular_weight: 45.2})

// Diseases with classifications
(:Disease {disease_name: "diabetes", disease_id: "D001", category: "metabolic"})

// Drugs with mechanisms
(:Drug {drug_name: "AlphaCure", drug_id: "DR001", drug_type: "small_molecule"})
```

### Relationship Types
```cypher
// Central dogma: Gene encodes Protein
(g:Gene)-[:ENCODES]->(p:Protein)

// Genetic associations
(g:Gene)-[:LINKED_TO]->(d:Disease)

// Protein functions
(p:Protein)-[:ASSOCIATED_WITH]->(d:Disease)

// Drug mechanisms
(dr:Drug)-[:TREATS]->(d:Disease)
(dr:Drug)-[:TARGETS]->(p:Protein)
```

### Sample Queries
```cypher
// Find pathway: Gene → Protein → Disease
MATCH (g:Gene)-[:ENCODES]->(p:Protein)-[:ASSOCIATED_WITH]->(d:Disease)
RETURN g.gene_name, p.protein_name, d.disease_name
LIMIT 5

// Find treatments for diabetes
MATCH (dr:Drug)-[:TREATS]->(d:Disease)
WHERE toLower(d.disease_name) CONTAINS 'diabetes'
RETURN dr.drug_name, d.disease_name

// Complex pathway: Gene → Protein → Disease ← Drug
MATCH (g:Gene)-[:ENCODES]->(p:Protein)-[:ASSOCIATED_WITH]->(d:Disease)<-[:TREATS]-(dr:Drug)
RETURN g.gene_name, p.protein_name, d.disease_name, dr.drug_name
LIMIT 3
```

## 🤖 LangGraph Workflow Implementation

### State Definition
```python
from typing import TypedDict, List, Optional

class AgentState(TypedDict):
    question: str
    question_type: str
    entities: List[str]
    cypher_query: Optional[str]
    query_results: List[dict]
    answer: str
    error: Optional[str]
```

### Workflow Nodes

#### 1. Classification Node
```python
def classify_question(state: AgentState) -> AgentState:
    """Classify the type of biomedical question."""
    question = state["question"]
    
    prompt = f"""
    Classify this biomedical question into one of these types:
    - gene_disease: Questions about genes and diseases
    - drug_treatment: Questions about drugs and treatments
    - gene_protein: Questions about genes and proteins
    - pathway: Questions about biological pathways
    
    Question: {question}
    """
    
    response = self.client.messages.create(
        model="claude-3-haiku-20240307",
        messages=[{"role": "user", "content": prompt}]
    )
    
    state["question_type"] = response.content[0].text.strip()
    return state
```

#### 2. Entity Extraction Node
```python
def extract_entities(state: AgentState) -> AgentState:
    """Extract biomedical entities from the question."""
    question = state["question"]
    
    prompt = f"""
    Extract biomedical entities from this question.
    Look for: gene names, protein names, disease names, drug names
    
    Question: {question}
    
    Return as comma-separated list:
    """
    
    # ... implementation
    state["entities"] = entities
    return state
```

#### 3. Query Generation Node
```python
def generate_cypher_query(state: AgentState) -> AgentState:
    """Generate Cypher query based on classification and entities."""
    question_type = state["question_type"]
    entities = state["entities"]
    
    # Template-based generation with validation
    if question_type == "gene_disease":
        query = """
        MATCH (g:Gene)-[:LINKED_TO]->(d:Disease)
        WHERE toLower(g.gene_name) CONTAINS toLower($entity)
           OR toLower(d.disease_name) CONTAINS toLower($entity)
        RETURN g.gene_name, d.disease_name
        LIMIT 10
        """
    # ... other query types
    
    state["cypher_query"] = query
    return state
```

## 📊 Testing Strategy

### Test Coverage
```bash
tests/
├── test_advanced_ai_agent.py      # 7 tests - Full LangGraph workflow
├── test_app.py                    # 7 tests - Web interface & NetworkX
├── test_graph_interface.py        # 4 tests - Database operations
├── test_template_query_agent.py   # 6 tests - Template queries
└── test_workflow_agent.py         # 3 tests - Learning workflow
```

### Key Test Patterns
```python
# Mock external dependencies
@patch('anthropic.Anthropic')
def test_classify_question(self, mock_anthropic):
    # Test AI classification without API calls
    
# Validate database operations
def test_execute_query(self):
    # Test Cypher execution with mock results
    
# Test web visualization
@patch("networkx.spring_layout")
def test_create_network_visualization(self, mock_spring_layout):
    # Test NetworkX graph creation
```

## 🛠️ Development Patterns

### Code Quality
```bash
# Line length: 88 characters (Black standard)
# Formatting: Black + isort
pdm run format

# Linting: Flake8 + MyPy
pdm run lint

# Testing: Pytest with coverage
pdm run test
```

### Security Best Practices
```python
# Always use parameterized queries
def execute_query(self, query: str, parameters: dict = None):
    with self.driver.session() as session:
        result = session.run(query, parameters or {})
        return [record.data() for record in result]

# Validate all inputs
def validate_query(self, query: str) -> bool:
    # Check for dangerous operations
    dangerous_keywords = ['DELETE', 'DETACH', 'CREATE', 'MERGE']
    return not any(keyword in query.upper() for keyword in dangerous_keywords)
```

### Error Handling
```python
def execute_query(self, query: str, parameters: dict = None):
    try:
        # Execute query
        return results
    except ServiceUnavailable:
        raise ConnectionError("Neo4j database not available")
    except CypherSyntaxError as e:
        raise ValueError(f"Invalid Cypher syntax: {str(e)}")
    except Exception as e:
        raise RuntimeError(f"Query execution failed: {str(e)}")
```

## 🚀 Deployment Considerations

### Environment Variables
```bash
# Required for production
ANTHROPIC_API_KEY=sk-ant-your-production-key
NEO4J_URI=bolt://production-neo4j:7687
NEO4J_USER=neo4j
NEO4J_PASSWORD=secure-production-password

# Optional for configuration
APP_ENV=production
LOG_LEVEL=INFO
MAX_QUERY_RESULTS=100
```

### Performance Optimization
```python
# Connection pooling
driver = GraphDatabase.driver(
    uri, 
    auth=(user, password),
    max_connection_lifetime=30 * 60,  # 30 minutes
    max_connection_pool_size=50
)

# Query optimization
CREATE INDEX ON :Gene(gene_name)
CREATE INDEX ON :Disease(disease_name)
CREATE INDEX ON :Drug(drug_name)
CREATE INDEX ON :Protein(protein_name)
```

### Monitoring
```python
# Add timing to queries
import time
def execute_query(self, query: str, parameters: dict = None):
    start_time = time.time()
    try:
        result = session.run(query, parameters or {})
        execution_time = time.time() - start_time
        logger.info(f"Query executed in {execution_time:.2f}s")
        return result
    except Exception as e:
        logger.error(f"Query failed: {str(e)}")
        raise
```

## 📚 Extension Points

### Adding New Agent Types
```python
class CustomAgent:
    def __init__(self, graph_interface, custom_config):
        self.graph = graph_interface
        self.config = custom_config
    
    def answer_question(self, question: str):
        # Implement your custom logic
        pass
```

### Custom Visualizations
```python
def create_custom_visualization(results, viz_type):
    if viz_type == "heatmap":
        # Create correlation heatmap
        pass
    elif viz_type == "sankey":
        # Create pathway flow diagram  
        pass
```

### Domain-Specific Extensions
```python
# Finance knowledge graphs
class FinanceAgent(AdvancedAIAgent):
    def get_finance_schema(self):
        return {
            "nodes": ["Company", "Person", "Transaction"],
            "relationships": ["OWNS", "TRANSACTS", "MANAGES"]
        }

# Social network analysis  
class SocialAgent(AdvancedAIAgent):
    def get_social_schema(self):
        return {
            "nodes": ["Person", "Group", "Event"],
            "relationships": ["FRIENDS", "MEMBER_OF", "ATTENDED"]
        }
```

This technical guide provides the foundation for understanding, extending, and deploying the platform in various contexts while maintaining the learning focus that makes knowledge graphs and LangGraph accessible to users.

Commit message:

Enhance documentation and user experience for LangGraph project
- Added a comprehensive "Foundations and Background Guide" for beginners to understand AI, knowledge graphs, and biomedical concepts.
- Updated README.md to highlight the new guide and reorganized quick start steps for clarity.
- Improved the layout and styling of the Streamlit web application for a more modern UI, including custom CSS for better typography and button styles.
- Enhanced the technical guide with prerequisites for better onboarding of developers.
- Revised getting-started.md to emphasize the new guide and provide a clearer learning path for users.
- Improved the overall structure and content of the documentation to facilitate easier navigation and understanding of the project.

docs/technical-guide.md, after:

# 🔧 Technical Guide

Complete technical documentation for developers working with the Life Sciences Knowledge Graph Agent platform.

**📖 Prerequisites**: This guide assumes familiarity with the concepts covered in [foundations-and-background.md](foundations-and-background.md). If you're new to AI, knowledge graphs, or the biomedical domain, please read that guide first for essential background knowledge.

## 🏗️ System Architecture

### Overview
The platform uses a modular architecture combining Neo4j graph database, LangGraph workflow engine, and Streamlit interface for interactive learning.

```
┌─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│                      Streamlit Web Interface                            │
│  ┌─────────────┐  ┌──────────────┐  ┌─────────────┐  ┌─────────────┐  │
│  │ Concepts    │  │ Try Agent    │  │ Queries     │  │ Exercises   │  │
│  └─────────────┘  └──────────────┘  └─────────────┘  └─────────────┘  │
└─────────────────────────────┬───────────────────────────────────────────┘
                              │
┌─────────────────────────────▼───────────────────────────────────────────┐
│                         Agent Layer                                     │
│ ┌─────────────────┐ ┌─────────────────┐ ┌─────────────────────────────┐ │
│ │ Simple Agent    │ │Learning Agent   │ │ LangGraph Agent            │ │
│ │ (Template)      │ │ (Learning)      │ │ (Advanced)                 │ │
│ └─────────────────┘ └─────────────────┘ └─────────────────────────────┘ │
└─────────────────────────────┬───────────────────────────────────────────┘
                              │
┌─────────────────────────────▼───────────────────────────────────────────┐
│                    Graph Interface Layer                                │
│                   ┌─────────────────────┐                              │
│                   │   GraphInterface    │                              │
│                   │  - Execute Queries  │                              │
│                   │  - Validate Cypher  │                              │
│                   │  - Schema Info      │                              │
│                   └─────────────────────┘                              │
└─────────────────────────────┬───────────────────────────────────────────┘
                              │
┌─────────────────────────────▼───────────────────────────────────────────┐
│                        Neo4j Database                                   │
│   ┌─────────┐  ┌─────────┐  ┌─────────┐  ┌─────────┐                  │
│   │  Gene   │  │Protein  │  │Disease  │  │  Drug   │                  │
│   └─────────┘  └─────────┘  └─────────┘  └─────────┘                  │
│                    Connected by Relationships                           │
└─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
```

### Core Components

#### 1. Web Interface (`src/web/app.py`)
- **Streamlit application** with 4 learning tabs
- **Interactive visualizations** using Plotly and NetworkX
- **Real-time query execution** and results display
- **Learning feedback** and step-by-step explanations

#### 2. Agent Types (`src/agents/`)

**AdvancedAIAgent** - Full LangGraph implementation:
```python
class AdvancedAIAgent:
    def __init__(self, graph_interface, anthropic_key):
        self.graph = graph_interface
        self.client = Anthropic(api_key=anthropic_key)
        self.workflow = self._build_workflow()
    
    def _build_workflow(self):
        # LangGraph state machine with 5 nodes:
        # classify → extract → generate → execute → format
        workflow = StateGraph(AgentState)
        workflow.add_node("classify", self.classify_question)
        workflow.add_node("extract", self.extract_entities)
        workflow.add_node("generate", self.generate_cypher_query)
        workflow.add_node("execute", self.execute_query)
        workflow.add_node("format", self.format_response)
        return workflow.compile()
```

**WorkflowAgent** - Simplified LangGraph for learning:
```python
class WorkflowAgent:
    # Learning version with print statements
    # Shows state transitions clearly
    # Designed for learning LangGraph concepts
```

**TemplateQueryAgent** - Template-based for beginners:
```python
class TemplateQueryAgent:
    # Pre-built query templates
    # Good for understanding Cypher patterns
    # No AI generation, just parameterized queries
```

#### 3. Graph Interface (`src/agents/graph_interface.py`)
```python
class GraphInterface:
    def execute_query(self, query: str, parameters: dict = None):
        # Executes Cypher queries safely
        # Handles connection management
        # Validates query syntax
    
    def get_schema_info(self):
        # Returns node labels and relationship types
        # Used for query generation and validation
```

## 🧬 Data Model

### Node Types
```cypher
// Genes with properties
(:Gene {gene_name: "GENE_ALPHA", gene_id: "GA001", chromosome: "1"})

// Proteins with molecular details
(:Protein {protein_name: "PROT_ALPHA", protein_id: "PA001", molecular_weight: 45.2})

// Diseases with classifications
(:Disease {disease_name: "diabetes", disease_id: "D001", category: "metabolic"})

// Drugs with mechanisms
(:Drug {drug_name: "AlphaCure", drug_id: "DR001", drug_type: "small_molecule"})
```

### Relationship Types
```cypher
// Central dogma: Gene encodes Protein
(g:Gene)-[:ENCODES]->(p:Protein)

// Genetic associations
(g:Gene)-[:LINKED_TO]->(d:Disease)

// Protein functions
(p:Protein)-[:ASSOCIATED_WITH]->(d:Disease)

// Drug mechanisms
(dr:Drug)-[:TREATS]->(d:Disease)
(dr:Drug)-[:TARGETS]->(p:Protein)
```

### Sample Queries
```cypher
// Find pathway: Gene → Protein → Disease
MATCH (g:Gene)-[:ENCODES]->(p:Protein)-[:ASSOCIATED_WITH]->(d:Disease)
RETURN g.gene_name, p.protein_name, d.disease_name
LIMIT 5

// Find treatments for diabetes
MATCH (dr:Drug)-[:TREATS]->(d:Disease)
WHERE toLower(d.disease_name) CONTAINS 'diabetes'
RETURN dr.drug_name, d.disease_name

// Complex pathway: Gene → Protein → Disease ← Drug
MATCH (g:Gene)-[:ENCODES]->(p:Protein)-[:ASSOCIATED_WITH]->(d:Disease)<-[:TREATS]-(dr:Drug)
RETURN g.gene_name, p.protein_name, d.disease_name, dr.drug_name
LIMIT 3
```

## 🤖 LangGraph Workflow Implementation

### State Definition
```python
from typing import TypedDict, List, Optional

class AgentState(TypedDict):
    question: str
    question_type: str
    entities: List[str]
    cypher_query: Optional[str]
    query_results: List[dict]
    answer: str
    error: Optional[str]
```

### Workflow Nodes

#### 1. Classification Node
```python
def classify_question(state: AgentState) -> AgentState:
    """Classify the type of biomedical question."""
    question = state["question"]
    
    prompt = f"""
    Classify this biomedical question into one of these types:
    - gene_disease: Questions about genes and diseases
    - drug_treatment: Questions about drugs and treatments
    - gene_protein: Questions about genes and proteins
    - pathway: Questions about biological pathways
    
    Question: {question}
    """
    
    response = self.client.messages.create(
        model="claude-3-haiku-20240307",
        messages=[{"role": "user", "content": prompt}]
    )
    
    state["question_type"] = response.content[0].text.strip()
    return state
```

#### 2. Entity Extraction Node
```python
def extract_entities(state: AgentState) -> AgentState:
    """Extract biomedical entities from the question."""
    question = state["question"]
    
    prompt = f"""
    Extract biomedical entities from this question.
    Look for: gene names, protein names, disease names, drug names
    
    Question: {question}
    
    Return as comma-separated list:
    """
    
    # ... implementation
    state["entities"] = entities
    return state
```

#### 3. Query Generation Node
```python
def generate_cypher_query(state: AgentState) -> AgentState:
    """Generate Cypher query based on classification and entities."""
    question_type = state["question_type"]
    entities = state["entities"]
    
    # Template-based generation with validation
    if question_type == "gene_disease":
        query = """
        MATCH (g:Gene)-[:LINKED_TO]->(d:Disease)
        WHERE toLower(g.gene_name) CONTAINS toLower($entity)
           OR toLower(d.disease_name) CONTAINS toLower($entity)
        RETURN g.gene_name, d.disease_name
        LIMIT 10
        """
    # ... other query types
    
    state["cypher_query"] = query
    return state
```

## 📊 Testing Strategy

### Test Coverage
```bash
tests/
├── test_advanced_ai_agent.py      # 7 tests - Full LangGraph workflow
├── test_app.py                    # 7 tests - Web interface & NetworkX
├── test_graph_interface.py        # 4 tests - Database operations
├── test_template_query_agent.py   # 6 tests - Template queries
└── test_workflow_agent.py         # 3 tests - Learning workflow
```

### Key Test Patterns
```python
# Mock external dependencies
@patch('anthropic.Anthropic')
def test_classify_question(self, mock_anthropic):
    # Test AI classification without API calls
    
# Validate database operations
def test_execute_query(self):
    # Test Cypher execution with mock results
    
# Test web visualization
@patch("networkx.spring_layout")
def test_create_network_visualization(self, mock_spring_layout):
    # Test NetworkX graph creation
```

## 🛠️ Development Patterns

### Code Quality
```bash
# Line length: 88 characters (Black standard)
# Formatting: Black + isort
pdm run format

# Linting: Flake8 + MyPy
pdm run lint

# Testing: Pytest with coverage
pdm run test
```

### Security Best Practices
```python
# Always use parameterized queries
def execute_query(self, query: str, parameters: dict = None):
    with self.driver.session() as session:
        result = session.run(query, parameters or {})
        return [record.data() for record in result]

# Validate all inputs
def validate_query(self, query: str) -> bool:
    # Check for dangerous operations
    dangerous_keywords = ['DELETE', 'DETACH', 'CREATE', 'MERGE']
    return not any(keyword in query.upper() for keyword in dangerous_keywords)
```

### Error Handling
```python
def execute_query(self, query: str, parameters: dict = None):
    try:
        # Execute query
        return results
    except ServiceUnavailable:
        raise ConnectionError("Neo4j database not available")
    except CypherSyntaxError as e:
        raise ValueError(f"Invalid Cypher syntax: {str(e)}")
    except Exception as e:
        raise RuntimeError(f"Query execution failed: {str(e)}")
```

## 🚀 Deployment Considerations

### Environment Variables
```bash
# Required for production
ANTHROPIC_API_KEY=sk-ant-your-production-key
NEO4J_URI=bolt://production-neo4j:7687
NEO4J_USER=neo4j
NEO4J_PASSWORD=secure-production-password

# Optional for configuration
APP_ENV=production
LOG_LEVEL=INFO
MAX_QUERY_RESULTS=100
```

### Performance Optimization
```python
# Connection pooling
driver = GraphDatabase.driver(
    uri, 
    auth=(user, password),
    max_connection_lifetime=30 * 60,  # 30 minutes
    max_connection_pool_size=50
)

# Query optimization
CREATE INDEX ON :Gene(gene_name)
CREATE INDEX ON :Disease(disease_name)
CREATE INDEX ON :Drug(drug_name)
CREATE INDEX ON :Protein(protein_name)
```

### Monitoring
```python
# Add timing to queries
import time
def execute_query(self, query: str, parameters: dict = None):
    start_time = time.time()
    try:
        result = session.run(query, parameters or {})
        execution_time = time.time() - start_time
        logger.info(f"Query executed in {execution_time:.2f}s")
        return result
    except Exception as e:
        logger.error(f"Query failed: {str(e)}")
        raise
```

## 📚 Extension Points

### Adding New Agent Types
```python
class CustomAgent:
    def __init__(self, graph_interface, custom_config):
        self.graph = graph_interface
        self.config = custom_config
    
    def answer_question(self, question: str):
        # Implement your custom logic
        pass
```

### Custom Visualizations
```python
def create_custom_visualization(results, viz_type):
    if viz_type == "heatmap":
        # Create correlation heatmap
        pass
    elif viz_type == "sankey":
        # Create pathway flow diagram  
        pass
```

### Domain-Specific Extensions
```python
# Finance knowledge graphs
class FinanceAgent(AdvancedAIAgent):
    def get_finance_schema(self):
        return {
            "nodes": ["Company", "Person", "Transaction"],
            "relationships": ["OWNS", "TRANSACTS", "MANAGES"]
        }

# Social network analysis  
class SocialAgent(AdvancedAIAgent):
    def get_social_schema(self):
        return {
            "nodes": ["Person", "Group", "Event"],
            "relationships": ["FRIENDS", "MEMBER_OF", "ATTENDED"]
        }
```

This technical guide provides the foundation for understanding, extending, and deploying the platform in various contexts while maintaining the learning focus that makes knowledge graphs and LangGraph accessible to users.
